# RAGSTER

**RAGSTER** is an AI-powered chatbot that uses Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) to answer questions based on the documents uploaded by users.

## Features

- **Document-Based Q&A:** Users can upload documents, and the chatbot will provide answers based on the content of those documents.
- **Real-time Interaction:** Instant responses generated by state-of-the-art language models.
- **Seamless User Experience:** Intuitive interface built with Gradio for easy interaction.
- **Efficient Storage:** Uses Pinecone as a vector database for storing and retrieving document vectors.

## Technologies Used

- **LangChain:** For managing and chaining language model workflows.
- **GPT 4o-mini and Claude 3.5 Sonnet:** Core AI models used for natural language understanding and generation. User can pick either of them.
- **Pinecone:** Vector database for efficient document storage and retrieval.
- **Gradio:** User-friendly web interface for interacting with the AI.
- **FastAPI:** Backend framework for building the API endpoints.

## Installation

To run the application locally, follow these steps:

1. **Clone the Repository:**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/fatih-sarioglu/ragster.git
   cd ragster
   ```

2. **Install Dependencies:**
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. **Run the Backend Server:**
   ```bash
   uvicorn api:app --reload
   ```

4. **Launch the Frontend:**
   ```bash
   gradio app.py
   ```

## How It Works

1. Users choose an AI model (GPT or Claude 3.5 Sonnet).
2. Users upload documents through the Gradio interface.
3. The documents are processed and stored as vectors in Pinecone.
4. When a user asks a question, RAGSTER retrieves relevant information from the vector database.
5. The AI model generates responses based on the retrieved data.

## Credits:

Logo: <a href="https://www.flaticon.com/free-icons/research" title="research icons">Document Icon | created by Freepik - Flaticon</a>

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! If you have any ideas, feel free to fork the repository and submit a pull request.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
